# HW1

## Big Picture
- we're going to work on math and programming
- goal is to build to a place where you have confidence solving probelms
- Final project of the unit: Understand the meaning of Pi

## What we did today
- Under stood what a circle is
- went over formulas for area, circumference, and diameter
- Graphed a circle in desmos
- printed hello world in python
- Learned about ints and floats
- learned about variable assignment
- talked about expectations, srikar's insanity, and accountability.

I highly suggest going over notes that we did. Very rarely will homework not have something to do with something we've gone over.

## Math

### guidelines
- Show all work. We'll get to a place where you don't need to show everything, but not yet
- you can use the internet for help, but the standard is you need to be able to reproduce your work.
- You can use calculators
- You can use graphing calculators (Desmos)
- Homework is designed to be able to be done by hand except for graphing. You can just send me a screenshot or a link to your calculations. I need to see the equations

1. What is the diameter of a circle with an area of 100*pi
2. What is the radius of a circle with an area of 25*pi
3.  what is the area of a circle with diameter 50.

4. graph a circle of radius 40
5.  graph a circle of radius 20


## Programming
### Strings
- create a python program that prints out the name of your favorite food.
- the value of the food must be stored in a variable. 
- after you print it out, change the value of the variable
- print out the new favorite food. See below for minimum of what I expect

```python
# assignvarialbe
# print something
# change same variable
# print the same thing again
```


### Ints vs Floats
- try adding two floats together. So something like 1.5 + 2.
- does order make a difference, so 2+1.5
- create a program that calculates the sum of the ages of all of your immediate family members

```python
# assignvarialbe 1
# assignvarialbe 2
# ...
# print the sum of everyone by variable name
```

## Fun

Inside the interpreter, I want you to be able to activate the "zen of python." It's a fun little easter egg when you find it.
